Logging
====================

The Apache Log4j2 2.11.2 library is used for logging. This version was published February 2019, and is available in the [Maven Central Repository] in [log4j-core 2.11.2](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.apache.logging.log4j/log4j-core/2.11.2) and [log4j-api 2.11.2](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.apache.logging.log4j/log4j-api/2.11.2). 

Please note that Log4j2 functions are included through the Spring Boot Starter for Log4j2, *spring-boot-starter-log4j2*. This project will continue using that version until we need to update either Log4j2 or Spring Boot.

The 2.11.2 version seems to no longer be available from [logging.apache.org](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.0/download.html).

In the NIST-CTS-Agents repository, the configuration file is in /dev/src/main/resources/log4j2.xml

Logs are stored on your local system in the dev/logs folder.
Ledgers are stored on your local system in the dev/ledger folder. Ledgers (see the [project README](../README.md)) contain committed transactions, and may be used to build an actor's position.

## Log4j2.xml:

There are two types of rolling logs, one is for normal logging, the other for ledgers.

All the logs of org.theenergymashuplab go in the logs folder of your local system logs folder and print on the console. The levels called are trace and info; see the source code. The  level that is output can be changed in log4j2.xml.

All the logs created by org.theenergymashuplab.cts.controller.payloads.EiCreateTransactionType  are set to level *trace* and will go to ledger folder. The trace level to be logged can be changed in log4j2.xml. The textual information is in the ledger file in a tab-separated values format which one might format differently for readability.

All the logs generated by hibernate (for MySQL interactions) will be printed on console. 

All the logs generated are tab separated.




